Let's understand the accuracy
metric a little more.
We'll see how we can use
the accuracy to derive
other useful evaluation metrics
such as sensitivity
and specificity.
We'll start by
interpreting accuracy
as a probability
of being correct.
We can break down this
probability of being
correct as the sum of
two probabilities.
The probability that the model is
correct and a patient has
the disease plus the
probability that
the model is correct and
the patient is normal.
The law of conditional
probability
allows us to further
expand this out.
As a reminder, the law of
conditional probability
says that the probability
of A and B is the probability of
A given B times the
probability of B.
We can apply this to the
first term to expand it out
here and to the second term
to expand it out here.
What this allows us to do is
interpret these terms over here.
The probability of being
correct given the patient
has the disease means that
we predicted positive.
So we can replace this by
the probability that we
predict positive given
a patient has disease.
Similarly, the probability
of being correct when
the patient is normal would
mean that we predicted negative,
so we can replace this
by the probability of
predicting negative given
a patient is normal.